---
id: 180
topics: [13, 10]
source: 8
---

# Background

You will be on vacation and need to make sure your dog will be taken care of at all times while you are away. You have a number of dog sitters that have provided you with their availability schedule, i.e. the intervals of time that they will be available. Each of the $n$ intervals $i$ has a start time $S_i$ and an end time $E_i$. To minimize your dog's stress level you want to plan a schedule that minimizes the number of dog sitter exchanges. Your algorithm should run in $O(n \\log n)$ in the worst case, and also be able to detect if such a schedule is not even feasible.

# Parts

## a

Describe your algorithm.

**Answer:** Sort availability periods based on non-decreasing start times. Go through intervals in sorted order finding interval i that starts before the start of your vacation and ends last. If no such interval exists, there is no solution. Otherwise, choose interval i. While $E_i$ < end of vacation AND i < n: go through intervals finding interval j that starts before the current end time and ends last. If $E_j < E_i$ or no such interval exists, there is no solution. Choose interval j, set i = j. If $E_i$ < end of vacation, no solution. Otherwise print chosen intervals.

## b

Prove the correctness of your algorithm.

**Answer:** Prove by induction that our intervals finish no sooner than the corresponding intervals in an optimal solution. Base step: Our first interval ends last among all intervals starting at or before the vacation start time, so it finishes no sooner than the first interval in optimal. Inductive step: Assume our k-th interval finishes no sooner than the k-th interval in optimal. Our (k+1)-th interval has the latest finish time among intervals overlapping with our k-th interval. Since our k-th finishes no sooner than the optimal's k-th, any interval available to optimal is also available to us. By contradiction, our (k+1)-th finishes no sooner. If optimal has fewer intervals, contradiction since our last interval's coverage implies optimal also needs another interval.

## c

Analyze the complexity of your algorithm.

**Answer:** Sorting takes $O(n \log n)$. Inside the while loop, each interval is visited only once, so it takes linear time. Overall complexity = $O(n \log n)$.
